[ Music ]
>> Jonathan Mooney: First lesson is the
idea that different isn't deficient.
And that was a lesson that took
a while to learn, you know.
If you hang out with the sort of language we
use when we talk about learning difference
or cognitive or physical differences,
it's fairly negative, you know.
Language-based learning disability,
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
And often adults -- got to be frank about this
-- sort of use those words without thinking
and don't give young people a full understanding
of how these things we have called deficiencies
are differences in the truest sense of the word.
You know, look at dyslexia.
You know, that's a difference.
It's got good things about it;
it's got bad things about it.
You know, I don't write or read well.
That's something I'm not naive about, but
there's a lot of research that shows that folks
with dyslexia are more creative, more
entrepreneurial than the general population.
Same goes with ADD and Asperger's
and anxiety and depression.
These are very complex human phenomena.
And I had people in my life in my childhood and
in particular during my transition to adulthood
who helped me understand that and helped me
understand that I am a part of a continuum
of human difference, that diversity is a
strength, that our culture, our schools,
our workplaces need diversity in every
single shape and form, and this is something
to be proud of and not ashamed of.
That was an important lesson for me.
Second lesson.
Sounds simple, but hard to do.
I had to learn to ask for
help and be okay getting help.
You know, during my early
school challenges and struggles,
I wasn't comfortable getting help even after
I was diagnosed with a learning disability,
even into my late adolescent, early adulthood,
I had a hard time using accommodations --
books on tape, time extensions for exams.
And when I didn't use those
accommodations, which were my right
by law, I struggled and I failed.
And getting over that sense of shame,
understanding that getting help
is something everybody does.
Every human being, whether you have a
disability or not, we are interdependent.
We lift each other up.
And that was an important
thing for me to understand.
And, you know, I get more
help now than I've ever done.
You know, I write books for a living.
You know, I spell at a third grade level.
How do I do that?
Well, you know, I married my spellchecker.
You know, I [laughs], you know, and, you know,
my wife, who was my girlfriend in college,
would read papers I wrote,
would read books to me.
My mom would spell check things.
You know, there's no shame in that.
And that also is something I
continue into my professional life.
You know, getting help and getting
accommodations isn't something
that stops when school stops.
It's something we bring into the world of work.
It's something we bring into
our interpersonal relationships.
It's a lifelong skill.
And I've mastered that skill and I wish
I would have mastered that skill sooner.
[ Music ]